a tsunami is a string of immense waves
that appear after earthquakes volcanic
eruptions underwater landslides and even
asteroid impacts the largest mega
tsunami wave ever recorded was
documented on July 9th 1958 in Lituya
Bay in Alaska the height of the wave
reached the stunning 1720 feet this
situation is no joke and as soon as you
find out that a tsunami is coming you
must act immediately to save your life
here's what you need to do right away if
you're on dry land no matter whether you
live near the coast or travel there for
the weekend you should know the signs of
an approaching tsunami it might be a
deafening roar that's coming from the
ocean or some other unusual ocean
behavior for example the water may
suddenly drain showing the ocean floor
or vice versa
a wall of water may appear on the
horizon also pay attention to strange
behavior changes in animals if they
unexpectedly group together hide in
different nooks leave the area or show
extreme anxiety these may be signs of an
approaching natural disaster as soon as
you hear a tsunami alert don't wait for
even a second evacuate immediately leave
behind your personal belongings and
documents now is not the time to think
about your possessions gather your loved
ones and use any available transport to
get away from the coast pop in your car
get on a bike or simply run as fast as
you can move as far away from the shore
as you can
heading toward high hills mountains or a
forest if possible go at least 2 miles
inland and 100 feet above sea level if
you're trapped by the rising water
choose the highest and most solid
building and climb to the top it's not
an ideal way out since the construction
can collapse under the force of the
tsunami waves but at least it's
something also keep in mind that roads
often get wiped out by tsunamis
therefore after every
is done you may have trouble finding
your way back in most cases tsunamis are
closely linked to earthquakes that's why
you should try to escape to open areas
with no or few buildings to avoid being
hit by falling debris on top of that
stay away from power lines walls bridges
and whatnot
even if these constructions look sturdy
enough they can collapse during the
aftershock the whole time
pay attention to tsunami warnings and
evacuation orders if you aren't in a
tsunami hazard zone stay where you are
and wait for further instructions keep
in mind that evacuation routes in
potentially dangerous areas are often
marked by a special sign with a wave and
an arrow on it it points in the
direction of higher groundz if you fall
into the water grab onto a tree trunk a
door or a raft in short find something
that floats and the sooner the better
even when you think that everything's
over don't be too quick to relax
tsunamis come in waves and there may be
dozens of them what's worse every
following wave might be larger than the
previous one and they can last for hours
so brace yourself for additional waves
aftershocks and a long patient wait try
to find reliable information by
listening to radio updates it's not the
best idea to trust word-of-mouth
otherwise you might return too soon and
get caught in more ways remember that
you need to survive not only the tsunami
itself but its aftermath as well once
the water goes down you'll see tons of
potentially hazardous debris don't
forget about the risk of electrocution
the water can be electrically charged by
damaged underground power lines also
don't touch any electrical equipment if
you're standing in water or if the thing
itself is wet don't come close to houses
and other buildings because after the
flooding they're likely to become
unstable now if you're out at sea
if you've heard about an approaching
tsunami when you're on a boat or a ship
at sea try to move to deepwater as fast
as you can the safest depth is 150 feet
or more the thing is that in the open
sea tsunami waves can reach a staggering
length of hundreds of miles but they're
usually no more than several feet high
on the other hand far from the shore
such waves usually travel at a breakneck
speed of up to 500 miles per hour but
when a wave is getting closer to the
coast it slows down to 30 miles per hour
and grows in height if you're a surfer
and a tsunami is nearing paddle towards
the shore and run toward the highest
place you can you might still have
several precious minutes until the
tsunami hits the beach
if this Annamma is drawing nearer while
you're far from the shore paddle towards
the horizon to the deep sea there you
might not feel the devastating effects
of the tsunami waves that much plus
you'll have a floatation device also in
the open sea you won't have to worry
about being hit by debris finally if
you've managed to paddle away from the
shore and are out of danger for the time
being don't hurry to return back to the
beach wait for at least a couple of
hours
tsunamis tend to last for a while a
tsunamis waves can travel at a speed of
20 to 30 miles per hour and reach a
height of 10 to 100 feet they can search
up to 10 miles inland and cause
catastrophic flooding which damages all
kinds of transportation and
communication and destroys the
freshwater supply about 80% of all the
tsunamis are born in the Pacific Oceans
Ring of Fire which is a seismically
active zone with 452 volcanoes and the
world's largest number of earthquakes
once a person gets swept away by a
tsunami the chances they'll make it out
of this ordeal alive are slim to none
however it's not totally impossible
the largest earthquake that's ever been
recorded happened on May 22nd 1960 the
coast of southern Chile and it's
magnitude was a blood-curdling 9.5 on
the Richter scale
destructive mega tsunamis caused by this
earthquake hit not only Chile but also
Hawaii the Philippines and Japan by the
time the earth had stopped shaking
dennis garcia who lived in the port town
of corral in Chile was still unaware of
the sheer force of the disaster not
knowing that his relatives had already
reached higher ground and were safe
the man was frantically searching for
his family that was when Garcia noticed
something bizarre as he looked out at
Coral Bay he saw that all the water had
retreated and the seafloor was bare
Garcia had never observed such an
intriguing phenomenon before and decided
to investigate it closer it turned out
to be a near fatal mistake distracted
the man hadn't noticed a huge 40-foot
high tsunami wave speeding up toward him
until it was too late
what saved Dennis Garcia that day was a
piece of debris he managed to cling to
he spent hours being tossed by the
raging waves before he climbed onto the
roof of a house that was floating past
luckily it saved the man and he lived to
tell the tale but remember that such a
miraculous survival story is one in a
million
that's why as soon as you hear about an
approaching tsunami don't waste any time
and follow the tips you've learned from
this video now if you have any other
recommendations that can save your life
in the case of a tsunami let me know
down in the comments if you learn
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go anywhere just yet we have
over 2,000 cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]